=begin DEBUGGING-NOTES

Abandon all sanity, ye who read this file :)

=begin Philosophy

Keep it stupidly simple. Put differently, the old adage is that you have to be
twice as clever to debug code than to write it. So I'm deliberately keeping
this file at least 4x simpler than I would ordinarily make it, so when I come
back to debug a whitespace issue in 2 weeks' time I won't waste 2 weeks getting
back up to speed on what the code does.

=item Acme dynamite kit

The code does everything in its power to generate a syntax tree instead of
blowing up, so you can see what it actually is doing. Stack traces are great,
but they can blow up before the actual problem that you're debugging, or they
just get in the way of viewing the rest of the tree. Finding that a brace is
out of place is great, but when all you have is a stacktrace and don't know
which brace it is in a 3-deep block, it does no good.

=item consistency

Every match from the Perl 6 internals has a 'method _foo' counterpart, with
only the exceptions of numbers and possibly strings.

Almost every internal method has the same general pattern of:

    my Perl6::Element @child; # <-- all tokens go in this variable.
    given $p {
        when assert-hash-keys( $p, [< xxx yyy >] ) {
            @child.append( ... )
        }
        default {
            ...
        }
    }

The few exceptions to the pattern are generally where the extra given(} layer
would push the indent too far to the right. I'm old-school and keep things to
an 80xN terminal.

=item why don't I just subclass the match?

It'd be so much easier, right? Just add a get-tokens() method for each match
and be done with it.

This'd be great, and what I wanted to do, but .. NQP objects aren't Perl 6
objects, and aren't constrained to obey the same laws. I B<can> play with the
underlying NQP:: methods, but I'd prefer not to, mostly because of backwards
compatibiity.

=item Why not just add the match object to the class?

See above. NQP objects don't play well with others. I'd love to, and it may
very well be possible to do this in a way I'm not sufficiently clever to think
of, but see also KISS.

=back

You'll see I use given-when all over the place, even when I probably should be
using a simple if-then-else statement. There are two basic reasons for this
practice.

=item refactoring

It's quicker to copy/paste when ... { } blocks than to copy an 'if...' block
and change the 'if' to 'elsif'. I'm well aware that I should be using a more
sophisticated way of handling the validation, but again, keeping it simple.

=item debugging

When I first started out with this, I spent 2 hours debugging what turned out
to be my writing:

if ... {
}
if ... {
}
else {
}

Twice I rewrote this to if ... { } elsif ... { } ... else { }, then I got wise
and rewrote the entire block as when... when... default { }, so I couldn't
possibly get into the if...if... situation again.

=back

=end Philosophy

=begin Deep-diving

So you want to fix a bug. Wonderful news, and I wish you the best of luck.
Here's some things to keep in mind when going about it:

=item .dump-tree() is your friend.

I've added some helpful debugging hints to this tool, B<especially> adding
useful line numbers to the trace data.

For instance, say you're wondering why 'if { }' repeats itself as 'if { }{}if'.
First off, it's very likely that '{}if' is actually a whitespace block that
I've miscalculated the boundaries of; this happens with depressing frequency.

Look at the output from .dump-tree($tree) for the telltale 'WS' and 'G' markers.
The 'WS' and line number will tell you "Hey, look at line XXXX! There's a
Perl6::WS object that's been told to capture something that's not whitespace!"

The 'G' marker will tell you "Hey, the code is returning the same block twice!"
because it'll say token X doesn't overlap token Y.

=item key-bounds $m.hash.<xxx>

This is a simple tool that dumps the 'from', 'to' and contents of a given hash
value or raw string that you give it from a NQPMatch object.

It will lock up mysteriously if you hand it a .list, so don't be surprised when
your first few tries to debug something infinihangs, as we say in Perl6
parlance. This is because NQPMatch has very few defenses against incorrect
accesses, and if you use the wrong method it will hang.

If you keep in mind those caveats, and being careful about 'say $m.dump' it's
generally well-behaved.

=item My god, it's full of \s*.

Whitespace is the biggest pain in the arse for this process. The Perl 6
grammar only needs whitespace in a few places, so the rest of the grammar
treats WS rather cavalierly. Sometimes a token will have whitespace after
it, sometimes a similar token won't, sometimes it'll have whitespace in the
match 2 layers up.

What's important to remember is that you B<always> have $match.orig to fall
back on, and can s/// that to your heart's content. I don't rely on it
very much, because I figure the substr() options on the actual match tokens
are faster because they're over small blocks of text, but I'd be happy to
be proved wrong.

Most of your time fixing a bug will probably be spent lo

=back

=end

=end DEBUGGING-NOTES
